Okay,
guys,
Um,
welcome back.
Now,
this is another student question this time from Natalia That follows on from the last
lecture that we looked at.
Then the last lecture we looked at,
we had a look at how to use dynamic name ranges to dynamically populate charts.
Now,
what of a new Italia's question?
Waas?
In the last lecture,
we looked ahead to populate it the day to win top to bottom.
That is vertically.
But what happens if the data goes across?
That is left to right?
So what have done?
You'll find a downloadable resource called horizontal dynamic dynamic named Ranges.
I haven't got my teeth improperly this morning on this comes in two flavors.
We have increasing and fixed.
Now all I did was just created a bit of random data in Italian stated he has bundle one
bundle to in bundle three on dates going across the top.
So what?
We have two flavors increase in what I did.
I just created this data set,
came up to insert,
went to recommended charts and chose this one.
I did the same for both of these.
So what we have on increasing?
We have data from the 19th of December through to the 23rd.
Now what happens if I just populate across notice what happens to the charts?
It is increasing and it is added in another block of data for the 24th.
And similarly,
if I handed him for the 25th it would increase.
So the chart constantly grows without day to set.
Now compare and contrast with fixed here we can see we have exactly the same day set from
the 19 through the 23rd of December,
and that is what showing in our chart.
But look what happens here.
Notice that we have in the chart now the 20th to the 24th.
And if I put in some data,
you can see that we now have in the chart only this block of data,
that is,
it is fixed at five blocks of data.
So if I did it again,
you'll notice that the chart now moves from the 21st of December 25th of December on when
they add in some more data for that,
it's now looking it this block of data.
So let me let me just delete what I've just done and I'll give you a quick whizz through
exactly the difference in how you do both.
So what I did with this set of data is I just highlighted these dates.
Came up to the name box just to give me a static,
static named range on called that increasing on dates.
And they did exactly the same with bundle one.
I came into the name box here and call it increase in bundle one increase in bundle to
increasing bundle three.
Then while we're on the subject,
I did in the fixed.
I highlighted this range came into name box and I called it fixed dates.
I highlighted this.
Came into name box and call it fixed bundle one fixed bundle to and fixed bundle three.
Now,
the next step was to go through and change those static named ranges to dynamic named
Rangers.
So I'm coming to the formulas and I'm coming to the name manager.
Now,
let's do the increasing first on which I make this so you can see it.
So increasing dates.
This is a dynamic named range.
So increasing B one.
I am starting at B one.
I am moving over zero rose from b 17 days.
I am still at B one,
and I am moving over zero columns from B one.
So I am still be one.
I want to return one row of data.
That is,
whatever is in row A that sorry row one,
and that the number of columns I want to look at is going to be the count of non blank
cells.
Count A from the sheet increase in row 1 to 1.
So that's the whole of row one for us,
far as it goes on.
When I click on that,
you can see that the states are highlighted.
Now,
if I just close that and I did another date control,
uh,
and then quipped,
um,
what are we on?
Increasing dates and then clicked in there.
You can see that the data set is increased to incorporate this new value off the 24th of
December.
Can just control it that for a second there with the bundles,
I did a similar thing.
I come to the name manager,
were on increase in bundle 12 and three the same.
They just look a different lines.
So with bundle one while I'm doing is I'm saying offset.
It's a dynamic name range increasing.
I am starting at Sell A to I am moving over zero Rose.
From there,
I am moving one column over because that is where the first value lies.
I don't want to return bundle one.
I want to return the first value.
So that's this value just here.
So that is 11 column over from where it is now I want one row of data.
That is a lot of stuff in line to and again,
I'm gonna use account eight.
Account the non blank cells from the sheets increase in row 222 That's this Here on at the
very end.
Now the minus one.
Because I don't want to count the title bundle.
One bundle to is exactly the same.
But starting its a three on looking at the amount of data in line 3323 on Bundle three
looks at a four and looks at line fort.
If all so,
that's how we do the increase in when I hope,
actually,
for her white one,
you can see that would be better so you can see the bundle.
One currently captures all of these dates noticed the minus one because we're moving over.
We're not capturing the title.
And then if I just commands to that for a second and the actually just control anarchists
had in controlling on there to say 45 20 whatever.
Just randomly and some data in there come to name manager dates we can see has increased to
capture all the dates on Bundle one has increased to capture all of those now in the
chancel I'm going to do is I'm gonna left Click the dates right click,
choose select data and in here I'm gonna hit Edit these of the dates on all I've done is
I've pointed to my dynamic named range.
It has the name of the work shape some reason here,
but it's increasing dates.
That's the name of this dynamic range.
Just here.
Okay,
now,
here I clicked.
Bundle one edit and I have done exactly the same thing.
I have pointed at a dynamic name range increasing bundle one bundle to Eddie's,
and I pointed that increasing bundle to on bundle three edit,
and I am pointing at increasing bundle three.
So that's how you do it.
If you want to increase your chart with every new set of data that gets added to the end.
Now,
here we have a different flavor.
This is the fixed on don't exactly the same thing.
I set this up as a basic fixed dates.
This is dates bundle one.
This sorry.
Fixed bundle.
One fixed bundle to fix Bundle three.
Now let me show you how I modified these.
So what we have is wrong.
Fixed only so fixed.
Fixed Looks like this.
So for the dates we have offset,
it's a dynamic name.
Range fixed.
Be one we're starting here on.
What we're doing is we are moving over zero Rose because we don't want to move from there.
Then we're going to use account I that is count the non blank cells in the whole of row one
and subtract five because we only want ever display five values.
So at the moment in the whole of row one,
we have five dates.
So five minus five is zero.
That is we are not moving over any rows or any columns from our start point.
While we have five dates in there,
I'm returning one row of data and I want to return five columns Where?
So at the moment,
that's just this data here.
But let me come out of that.
And then at another date,
him control and our come back into name manager.
Move that Dancy conceit and choose fixed dates and click in and no,
you can see account A will count six dates.
123456 and subtract five.
So now we're moving over one column from our start point of B one.
We're moving.
We're capturing one row of data row one and we're only wanting to capture five columns.
Where?
So it's capturing the last five columns.
Hopefully in banking sense of this.
No.
If you look at the fixed bundle one which currently is capturing that data just there we
have a very similar thing.
We have offset fixed A to cause We're starting it.
A two.
That's where our title lives were moving over zero rows of data.
We're not moving from there,
but then we're going to use the county fixed a two sorry row,
too.
So we're looking at the number of values in here on subtracting five.
So we have 123456 minus five comma one I want return one row of one row of values that is
everything in line to Onda.
Five entries.
So it will be the last five Exactly the same thing.
But this time we're starting at a two rather than be one.
Okay,
so here we can see that that's been populated.
If I close it and add another value and they're just say four and then come to name manager
into Fixed Wonder one,
you'll see that it's no capturing the last five entries.
So all I need to do with this one is just left.
Click the dates right click to select data come up to edit And this time I'm gonna point to
our fixed dates named range and with Bundle one I'm gonna hit edit on I have changed this
to point it Our fixed bundle one named range bundle to edit on again I am point into our
fixed bundle to named range on Finally bundle three edit on I am pointing to our fixed
bundle three named range So I'm just gonna put that back to how it Waas Before I started
playing around when this actually give us five entries in that one on 1234 five tips.
Five entries in that one on.
Hopefully you can have a play around with that.
As always,
if there are any questions,
just let me know and I'll be happy to help.
Have a great day.